[Collatz Conjecture Dig Deeper]: Corrections & Edit (#4250)
exercism/python: exercises/practice/collatz-conjecture/.approaches/recursion/content.md

    return 1 + steps(number)
```

This approach uses [concept:python/recursion]() to solve the challenge.
`Recursion` is less common as a strategy in Python than in other "fully-functional" programming languages such as [Elixir][elixir], [Haskell][haskell], and [Clojure][clojure].
While it can be powerful, it can also be trickier to implement than looping constructs.

This approach starts with checking if `number <= 0` and raising a [`ValueError`][value-error] if it is.
Next, we `return` zero if `number == 1`.
This is the [`base case`][recursion-base-case].

We then assign `number` to the same `conditional expression` as seen in the [`ternary operator`][ternary-operator] approach.
Finally, we `return` one plus the result of calling `steps()`.

> This is the [`recursive case`][recursive-case], where the function calls itself with a new `number` value.

Reviewer: Maybe the "where the function calls itself with a new `number` value" could be moved to the previous sentence?

Something like: "Finally, we `return` one plus the result of calling `steps()` with the updated `number` value."

> This is the [`recursive case`][recursive-case], where the function calls itself with a new `number` value.

Author: ```suggestion
Finally, we `return` one plus the result of calling `steps()`, with the updated `number` value.
This is the [`recursive case`][recursive-case].
```

Solving this exercise in this way removes the need for a `counter` variable and the creation of a `loop`.
If `number` is not equal to one, we call `1 + steps(number)`.
Then `steps()` can execute the same code again with new values.
This makes a long chain (_or stack_) of `1 + steps(number)` — until `number == 1` and the code adds zero and exits.
That translates to something like: `1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 0`.

Python doesn't have [tail call optimization][tail-call], so the stack of `1 + steps(number)` will continue to grow until the `base case` triggers resolution, or the code reaches the `recursion limit`.

~~~~exercism/caution
In Python, we can't have a function call itself more than 1000 times by default. 
Code that exceeds this `recursion limit` will throw a [RecursionError](https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#RecursionError).  

While it is possible to adjust the [`recursion limit`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/sys.html#sys.setrecursionlimit), doing so risks crashing Python and may also crash your system with a [`stack overflow`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stack_overflow).
Casually raising the limit is not recommended and seldom helps the performance situation. 

> Instead, applying [memoization techniques](https://dbader.org/blog/python-memoization) or [dynamic programming strategies](https://medium.com/@conniezhou678/mastering-data-algorithms-part-18-dynamic-programming-in-python-3077c01f4a15) is a better path.

Reviewer: Reflinks should probably be used here.
